apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/sso/microsoft-entra-id.mdx, before:

---
title: Microsoft Entra ID
description: Learn how to configure Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) for your organisation's SSO portal.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Microsoft Entra ID Configuration

Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory) is a popular identity provider for enterprise SSO. This guide will walk you through creating an app registration and configuring it for use with your Documenso SSO portal.

## Prerequisites

- Access to Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) admin center
- Access to your Documenso organisation as an administrator or manager

<Callout type="warning">Each user in your Azure AD will need an email associated with it.</Callout>

## Creating an App Registration

<Steps>

### Access Azure Portal

1. Navigate to the Azure Portal
2. Sign in with your Microsoft Entra ID administrator account
3. Search for "Azure Active Directory" or "Microsoft Entra ID" in the search bar
4. Click on "Microsoft Entra ID" from the results

### Create App Registration

1. In the left sidebar, click on "App registrations"
2. Click the "New registration" button

### Configure App Registration

Fill in the registration form with the following details:

- **Name**: Your preferred name (e.g. `Documenso SSO Portal`)
- **Supported account types**: Choose based on your needs
- **Redirect URI (Web)**: Found in the Documenso SSO portal settings page

Click "Register" to create the app registration.

### Get Client ID

After registration, you'll be taken to the app's overview page. The **Application (client) ID** is displayed prominently - this is your Client ID for Documenso.

### Create Client Secret

1. In the left sidebar, click on "Certificates & secrets"
2. Click "New client secret"
3. Add a description (e.g., "Documenso SSO Secret")
4. Choose an expiration period (recommended 12-24 months)
5. Click "Add"

Make sure you copy the "Secret value", not the "Secret ID", you won't be able to access it again after you leave the page.

</Steps>

## Getting Your OpenID Configuration URL

1. In the Azure portal, go to "Microsoft Entra ID"
2. Click on "Overview" in the left sidebar
3. Click the "Endpoints" in the horizontal tab
4. Copy the "OpenID Connect metadata document" value

## Configure Documenso SSO Portal

Now you have all the information needed to configure your Documenso SSO portal:

- **Issuer URL**: The "OpenID Connect metadata document" value from the previous step
- **Client ID**: The Application (client) ID from your app registration
- **Client Secret**: The secret value you copied during creation

Commit message:

feat: replace all remaining Documenso mentions with Scriblli

apps/documentation/pages/users/organisations/sso/microsoft-entra-id.mdx, after:

---
title: Microsoft Entra ID
description: Learn how to configure Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) for your organisation's SSO portal.
---

import Image from 'next/image';

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Microsoft Entra ID Configuration

Microsoft Entra ID (formerly Azure Active Directory) is a popular identity provider for enterprise SSO. This guide will walk you through creating an app registration and configuring it for use with your Scriblli SSO portal.

## Prerequisites

- Access to Microsoft Entra ID (Azure AD) admin center
- Access to your Scriblli organisation as an administrator or manager

<Callout type="warning">Each user in your Azure AD will need an email associated with it.</Callout>

## Creating an App Registration

<Steps>

### Access Azure Portal

1. Navigate to the Azure Portal
2. Sign in with your Microsoft Entra ID administrator account
3. Search for "Azure Active Directory" or "Microsoft Entra ID" in the search bar
4. Click on "Microsoft Entra ID" from the results

### Create App Registration

1. In the left sidebar, click on "App registrations"
2. Click the "New registration" button

### Configure App Registration

Fill in the registration form with the following details:

- **Name**: Your preferred name (e.g. `Scriblli SSO Portal`)
- **Supported account types**: Choose based on your needs
- **Redirect URI (Web)**: Found in the Scriblli SSO portal settings page

Click "Register" to create the app registration.

### Get Client ID

After registration, you'll be taken to the app's overview page. The **Application (client) ID** is displayed prominently - this is your Client ID for Scriblli.

### Create Client Secret

1. In the left sidebar, click on "Certificates & secrets"
2. Click "New client secret"
3. Add a description (e.g., "Scriblli SSO Secret")
4. Choose an expiration period (recommended 12-24 months)
5. Click "Add"

Make sure you copy the "Secret value", not the "Secret ID", you won't be able to access it again after you leave the page.

</Steps>

## Getting Your OpenID Configuration URL

1. In the Azure portal, go to "Microsoft Entra ID"
2. Click on "Overview" in the left sidebar
3. Click the "Endpoints" in the horizontal tab
4. Copy the "OpenID Connect metadata document" value

## Configure Scriblli SSO Portal

Now you have all the information needed to configure your Scriblli SSO portal:

- **Issuer URL**: The "OpenID Connect metadata document" value from the previous step
- **Client ID**: The Application (client) ID from your app registration
- **Client Secret**: The secret value you copied during creation
