apps/documentation/pages/users/templates.mdx, before:

---
title: Templates
description: Learn how to create and use templates in Documenso.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Document Templates

Documenso allows you to create templates, which are reusable documents. Templates are helpful if you often send the same type of document, such as contracts, agreements, or invoices, as they help you save time.

<Steps>

### Create New Template

To create a new template, navigate to the "Templates" page and click on the "Upload Template" button.

![Documenso template page](/templates/documenso-template-page.webp)

You can select multiple files at once to upload into the template. Once the upload is complete you will be redirected to the editor.

![A successfully uploaded document in the Documenso dashboard](/templates/documenso-template-page-uploaded-document.webp)

See the [documents](/users/documents/sending-documents) page for more information on how to use the editor.

You can then configure the template by adding recipients, fields, and other options.

### Add Placeholders or Recipients

When adding recipients, you can use dummy recipients which can be replaced with actual recipients when you use a template, which we will explain in the next section.

For example, the following has two recipients:

- placeholder@documenso.com
- me@documenso.com

![Adding placeholder recipients for the Documenso template](/templates/documenso-template-recipients.webp)

You can then place fields for each recipient.

<Callout type="info">
  Learn more about the available field types and how to use them on the [Fields
  page](/users/documents/fields).
</Callout>

### Use a Template

Once you're ready to use the template, you can click the "Use Template" button in the top right corner.

Here you can choose to use the template as is, or you can replace the emails or names with different recipients as you require.

You can now decide whether to create the document as a draft, or immediately send it to the recipients for signing.

![Use an available Documenso template](/templates/documenso-use-template.webp)

You can also send the document straight to the recipients for signing by checking the "Send document" checkbox.

### (Optional) Create A Direct Signing Link

A direct signing link allows you to create a shareable link for document signing, where recipients can fill in their information and sign the document.

<Callout type="info">
  Check out the [Direct Signing Links](/users/direct-links) section for more information.
</Callout>

</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: replace all remaining Documenso mentions with Scriblli

apps/documentation/pages/users/templates.mdx, after:

---
title: Templates
description: Learn how to create and use templates in Scriblli.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Document Templates

Scriblli allows you to create templates, which are reusable documents. Templates are helpful if you often send the same type of document, such as contracts, agreements, or invoices, as they help you save time.

<Steps>

### Create New Template

To create a new template, navigate to the "Templates" page and click on the "Upload Template" button.

![Scriblli template page](/templates/Scriblli-template-page.webp)

You can select multiple files at once to upload into the template. Once the upload is complete you will be redirected to the editor.

![A successfully uploaded document in the Scriblli dashboard](/templates/Scriblli-template-page-uploaded-document.webp)

See the [documents](/users/documents/sending-documents) page for more information on how to use the editor.

You can then configure the template by adding recipients, fields, and other options.

### Add Placeholders or Recipients

When adding recipients, you can use dummy recipients which can be replaced with actual recipients when you use a template, which we will explain in the next section.

For example, the following has two recipients:

- placeholder@Scriblli.com
- me@Scriblli.com

![Adding placeholder recipients for the Scriblli template](/templates/Scriblli-template-recipients.webp)

You can then place fields for each recipient.

<Callout type="info">
  Learn more about the available field types and how to use them on the [Fields
  page](/users/documents/fields).
</Callout>

### Use a Template

Once you're ready to use the template, you can click the "Use Template" button in the top right corner.

Here you can choose to use the template as is, or you can replace the emails or names with different recipients as you require.

You can now decide whether to create the document as a draft, or immediately send it to the recipients for signing.

![Use an available Scriblli template](/templates/Scriblli-use-template.webp)

You can also send the document straight to the recipients for signing by checking the "Send document" checkbox.

### (Optional) Create A Direct Signing Link

A direct signing link allows you to create a shareable link for document signing, where recipients can fill in their information and sign the document.

<Callout type="info">
  Check out the [Direct Signing Links](/users/direct-links) section for more information.
</Callout>

</Steps>
