apps/documentation/pages/developers/self-hosting/signing-certificate.mdx, before:

---
title: Signing Certificate
description: Learn how to generate or buy a signing certificate for your Documenso instance.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Generate or Buy

Self-hosting your Documenso instance requires your own certificate to sign documents. [This article](https://documenso.com/blog/building-documenso-pt1) explains why.

When it comes to certificates, you have two options:

- generate your certificate
- buy one from the Certificate Authority (CA)

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  A self-signed certificate should suffice if your industry has no special signing regulation. For
  example, Deel.com makes hundreds of millions in revenue based on a platform without any signing
  certificate, making your self-signed instance technically more secure. Of course, this is not
  legal advice.
</Callout>

## Generating A Certificate

If you don't have special requirements for the signature of your signed documents, you can use a self-generated (self-signed) certificate.

The main drawback is that mainstream PDF readers like Adobe won't recognize the signature as a trusted source or show a green checkmark. The certificate will still include your company/personal data to prove your Documenso instance signed the document. It also guarantees that the document wasn't altered after signing.

You can generate your signing certificate by following [this guide](/developers/local-development/signing-certificate).

## Buying a Certificate

If you want more "officially backed" _(for lack of a better word)_ signatures, you will need to buy a certificate from a CA (Certificate Authority). If you want a green checkmark in Adobe PDF, you will need a vendor trusted by Adobe. Check out all Adobe vendors with a green checkmark for the signature on the [Adobe Trust List](https://helpx.adobe.com/acrobat/kb/approved-trust-list1.html).

If you are based in Europe, it might make sense to go with a European one, though there is no hard requirement. While the pricing can vary from vendor to vendor, the certificate's properties don't. The usual case would be a corporate certificate detailing the company's name to which it was issued.

### Technical Process

Receiving your signing certificate is similar to receiving an SSL certificate. Since you need the actual certificate as part of the Documenso config, you must generate a secret private key and a CSR (Certificate Signing Request).

<Steps>

### Generate a private key

Generate a private key (on a secure machine or in an HSM, depending on your security needs and the provider's requirements).

### Create a CSR

Have the Certificate Authority sign the Certificate Signing Request.

### Configure Documenso to use the certificate

Configure your instance to use the new certificate by configuring the following environment variables in your `.env` file:

| Environment Variable                                           | Description                                                                                                                               |
| :------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_TRANSPORT`                               | The transport used for document signing. Available options: local (default), gcloud-hsm                                                   |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_PASSPHRASE`                              | The passphrase for the local file-based signing transport. This field is optional.                                                        |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_LOCAL_FILE_PATH`                         | The local file path to the .p12 file to use for the local signing transport. This field is optional.                                      |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_LOCAL_FILE_CONTENTS`                     | The base64-encoded contents of the .p12 file to use for the local signing transport. This field is optional.                              |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_KEY_PATH`                     | The Google Cloud HSM key path for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                                               |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_PUBLIC_CRT_FILE_PATH`         | The path to the Google Cloud HSM public certificate file to use for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.             |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_PUBLIC_CRT_FILE_CONTENTS`     | The base64-encoded contents of the Google Cloud HSM public certificate file for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional. |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_CONTENTS` | The base64-encoded Google Cloud Credentials for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                                 |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_CERT_CHAIN_FILE_PATH`         | The path to the certificate chain file for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                                      |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_CERT_CHAIN_CONTENTS`          | The base64-encoded contents of the certificate chain for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                        |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_SECRET_MANAGER_CERT_PATH`     | The Google Secret Manager path to retrieve the certificate for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                  |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_TIMESTAMP_AUTHORITY`                     | Comma-separated list of timestamp authority URLs for PDF signing. Enables LTV and archival timestamps. This field is optional.            |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SIGNING_CONTACT_INFO`                             | Contact info to embed in PDF signatures. Defaults to the webapp URL. This field is optional.                                              |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_USE_LEGACY_SIGNING_SUBFILTER`                    | Set to "true" to use the legacy adbe.pkcs7.detached subfilter instead of ETSI.CAdES.detached. This field is optional.                     |

</Steps>

Commit message:

feat: replace all remaining Documenso mentions with Scriblli

apps/documentation/pages/developers/self-hosting/signing-certificate.mdx, after:

---
title: Signing Certificate
description: Learn how to generate or buy a signing certificate for your Scriblli instance.
---

import { Callout, Steps } from 'nextra/components';

# Generate or Buy

Self-hosting your Scriblli instance requires your own certificate to sign documents. [This article](https://Scriblli.com/blog/building-Scriblli-pt1) explains why.

When it comes to certificates, you have two options:

- generate your certificate
- buy one from the Certificate Authority (CA)

<Callout type="info" emoji="ℹ️">
  A self-signed certificate should suffice if your industry has no special signing regulation. For
  example, Deel.com makes hundreds of millions in revenue based on a platform without any signing
  certificate, making your self-signed instance technically more secure. Of course, this is not
  legal advice.
</Callout>

## Generating A Certificate

If you don't have special requirements for the signature of your signed documents, you can use a self-generated (self-signed) certificate.

The main drawback is that mainstream PDF readers like Adobe won't recognize the signature as a trusted source or show a green checkmark. The certificate will still include your company/personal data to prove your Scriblli instance signed the document. It also guarantees that the document wasn't altered after signing.

You can generate your signing certificate by following [this guide](/developers/local-development/signing-certificate).

## Buying a Certificate

If you want more "officially backed" _(for lack of a better word)_ signatures, you will need to buy a certificate from a CA (Certificate Authority). If you want a green checkmark in Adobe PDF, you will need a vendor trusted by Adobe. Check out all Adobe vendors with a green checkmark for the signature on the [Adobe Trust List](https://helpx.adobe.com/acrobat/kb/approved-trust-list1.html).

If you are based in Europe, it might make sense to go with a European one, though there is no hard requirement. While the pricing can vary from vendor to vendor, the certificate's properties don't. The usual case would be a corporate certificate detailing the company's name to which it was issued.

### Technical Process

Receiving your signing certificate is similar to receiving an SSL certificate. Since you need the actual certificate as part of the Scriblli config, you must generate a secret private key and a CSR (Certificate Signing Request).

<Steps>

### Generate a private key

Generate a private key (on a secure machine or in an HSM, depending on your security needs and the provider's requirements).

### Create a CSR

Have the Certificate Authority sign the Certificate Signing Request.

### Configure Scriblli to use the certificate

Configure your instance to use the new certificate by configuring the following environment variables in your `.env` file:

| Environment Variable                                           | Description                                                                                                                               |
| :------------------------------------------------------------- | :---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_TRANSPORT`                               | The transport used for document signing. Available options: local (default), gcloud-hsm                                                   |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_PASSPHRASE`                              | The passphrase for the local file-based signing transport. This field is optional.                                                        |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_LOCAL_FILE_PATH`                         | The local file path to the .p12 file to use for the local signing transport. This field is optional.                                      |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_LOCAL_FILE_CONTENTS`                     | The base64-encoded contents of the .p12 file to use for the local signing transport. This field is optional.                              |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_KEY_PATH`                     | The Google Cloud HSM key path for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                                               |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_PUBLIC_CRT_FILE_PATH`         | The path to the Google Cloud HSM public certificate file to use for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.             |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_PUBLIC_CRT_FILE_CONTENTS`     | The base64-encoded contents of the Google Cloud HSM public certificate file for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional. |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_APPLICATION_CREDENTIALS_CONTENTS` | The base64-encoded Google Cloud Credentials for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                                 |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_CERT_CHAIN_FILE_PATH`         | The path to the certificate chain file for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                                      |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_CERT_CHAIN_CONTENTS`          | The base64-encoded contents of the certificate chain for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                        |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_GCLOUD_HSM_SECRET_MANAGER_CERT_PATH`     | The Google Secret Manager path to retrieve the certificate for the gcloud-hsm signing transport. This field is optional.                  |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_SIGNING_TIMESTAMP_AUTHORITY`                     | Comma-separated list of timestamp authority URLs for PDF signing. Enables LTV and archival timestamps. This field is optional.            |
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_SIGNING_CONTACT_INFO`                             | Contact info to embed in PDF signatures. Defaults to the webapp URL. This field is optional.                                              |
| `NEXT_PRIVATE_USE_LEGACY_SIGNING_SUBFILTER`                    | Set to "true" to use the legacy adbe.pkcs7.detached subfilter instead of ETSI.CAdES.detached. This field is optional.                     |

</Steps>
